content/codernotes-pre-retrospective.md, before:

---
title: CoderNotes Pre-Retrospective
description: A quick look back from a point of uncertainty
date: 2020-05-22T00:00:00-04:00
categories: []
published: true

---
## CoderNotes has finally launched.

Well, the official launch is June 1st, but there won't be any more code changes up until that point. For the people finding CoderNotes organically on Google, it may as well be fully launched.

There's a large part of me that's happy about the fact that it's done. This was my first product, my stairstep product, in the SaaS category, and I'm glad to have a product out there on the interwebs. CoderNotes is a really high-quality product (in my not-so-humble opinion), and I'm extremely proud of it.

From a product perspective, it's everything I wanted in a note-taking software. I use it daily both in my personal life and for my work. It's a great feeling to have "scratched my own itch".

But, from a financial perspective, an entrepreneurial perspective, I've wanted to write this retrospective on the project. I don't believe CoderNotes will reach the goals I had for the product during the initial vision.

It's not that it's failing, per-se. I think it's a great product that will slowly grow in revenue over time.

It's also too soon to talk about this. Hence the name "Pre-Retrospective". I'm guessing that the June 1st launch will be mediocre, and writing from that perspective. Maybe I'll be one of the lucky few who gets skyrocked to #1 on Product Hunt, but one lesson I've learned from this project is to not rely on luck as a primary factor of success.

So, CoderNotes won't be a home-run, but it isn't a strike-out. It feels more like a foul ball.

I'm writing this article to organize my thoughts around what went well, and what went wrong, over the past five months. I also want to organize my takeaways from CoderNotes, and come to some conclusions around what the long-term plan for CoderNotes will be, what my lessons learned are, and what the next project I'm tackling is, if any for now.

> Worth mentioning... before Tuple, I created several paid info products, a paid Rails app, a subscriptiion info product business, and two tiny SaaSs.
>
>   
> Tuple was not my first at-bat. I created a half-dozen less successful things first.  
>   
> Start your first three business as quickly as possible.  
> \- @r00k (Ben Orenstein) - 05/14/20

## What went well:

### 1. The initial pivot

![](/uploads/the-problem.PNG "My initial idea")

## What didn't go well:

### No good short-term channels:

When starting CoderNotes, I thought that 

## What I learned:

Look at a business as the sum of three parts:

1. The market (who is interested in this?)
2. The channels (How can I reach the market?)
3. The product (What am I offering via the channel?)

You'll notice that I put the product last. This might seem backwards, but I think it's the right spot for it. It's a failure of the English language to say "I'm building a product." It skips over the two equally important parts, and gives a misleading image of what it means to create a SaaS business. 

It would be more accurate to say, _"I'm building authority in \[channels\] to serve \[market\], and will be offering \[product\] for those it can help."_

## What I'm doing next:

Part of me really wants to write. I don't know if it's just temporary, a decompression, from the constant product work. But I'm torn on this subject.

On one hand, writing is something I enjoy. It's a guaranteed way to gain initial traction on a product. It's a great way to make friends in the industry, and help grow both your personal and business brands. It would be nice to play a game where the only risk is product risk ("can I produce quality content consistently?") instead of market risk ("will people be interested in buying this?").

On the other hand, I've never been able to write consistently. I want to write what I want to write about (like this post), regardless of who reads it. I don't want to build an audience, I want to prove that a bootstrapped founder can be successful based on the quality of the product alone.

### As far as CoderNotes, I want to let it grow organically.

It wouldn't be right to call it life-support. Yes, I don't plan on adding many new features, if any at all, but that's because CoderNotes is a great piece of software as is. Any other features are simply nice-to-haves. 

I never found any successful short-term channels with CoderNotes. I had hoped that the communities I was a part of, becoming more active on twitter, and paid advertising would be enough to consistently drive converting traffic to CoderNotes.

![](/uploads/conversion-by-source.PNG)

As you can see, the results I saw were almost the opposite in effect. While twitter brought in some curious people, the conversion rate was horrible. 

IndieHackers was the second best, which speaks to the fact that it is such an amazing community. Even though I'm sure many of these people were only here out of curiosity, it still remained a well-converting group. A lot of IHers are developers by trade, which I think helped a lot. However, Indie Hackers isn't nearly enough traffic to keep the site alive on its own, due to the extremely low price point of $50/year or $5/month. The few subscriptions I'll end up getting through here probably won't cover infrastructure costs.

Oh, and google ads ("google / cpc" in the picture above) had an abysmal 0.00% conversion rate. Ouch.

### While there's no short-term channels for CoderNotes, there are two very strong positives in the picture above.

These two channels in the picture above are the reason I'm not calling this next phase of CoderNotes "life support". It's my all-in bet on why CoderNotes still has a chance at success, from a longer-term perspective. It's either this or bust, it seems:

Take a look at #7. What does it mean for my app to be referring users to my marketing page? Seems weird, right?

Well, not really. The only link from the app that goes back to the site is this one here:

![](/uploads/learn-more.PNG)

## What I'm doing long-term:

Commit message:

Update from Forestry.io Kevin Conti created content/learn-more.jpg Kevin Conti updated content/codernotes-pre-retrospective.md

content/codernotes-pre-retrospective.md, after:

---
title: CoderNotes Pre-Retrospective
description: A quick look back from a point of uncertainty
date: 2020-05-22T00:00:00-04:00
categories: []
published: true

---
## CoderNotes has finally launched.

Well, the official launch is June 1st, but there won't be any more code changes up until that point. For the people finding CoderNotes organically on Google, it may as well be fully launched.

There's a large part of me that's happy about the fact that it's done. This was my first product, my stairstep product, in the SaaS category, and I'm glad to have a product out there on the interwebs. CoderNotes is a really high-quality product (in my not-so-humble opinion), and I'm extremely proud of it.

From a product perspective, it's everything I wanted in a note-taking software. I use it daily both in my personal life and for my work. It's a great feeling to have "scratched my own itch".

But, from a financial perspective, an entrepreneurial perspective, I've wanted to write this retrospective on the project. I don't believe CoderNotes will reach the goals I had for the product during the initial vision.

It's not that it's failing, per-se. I think it's a great product that will slowly grow in revenue over time.

It's also too soon to talk about this. Hence the name "Pre-Retrospective". I'm guessing that the June 1st launch will be mediocre, and writing from that perspective. Maybe I'll be one of the lucky few who gets skyrocked to #1 on Product Hunt, but one lesson I've learned from this project is to not rely on luck as a primary factor of success.

So, CoderNotes won't be a home-run, but it isn't a strike-out. It feels more like a foul ball.

I'm writing this article to organize my thoughts around what went well, and what went wrong, over the past five months. I also want to organize my takeaways from CoderNotes, and come to some conclusions around what the long-term plan for CoderNotes will be, what my lessons learned are, and what the next project I'm tackling is, if any for now.

> Worth mentioning... before Tuple, I created several paid info products, a paid Rails app, a subscriptiion info product business, and two tiny SaaSs.
>
> Tuple was not my first at-bat. I created a half-dozen less successful things first.
>
> Start your first three business as quickly as possible.  
> \- @r00k (Ben Orenstein) - 05/14/20

## What went well:

### 1. The initial pivot

![](/uploads/the-problem.jpg)

## What didn't go well:

### No good short-term channels:

When starting CoderNotes, I thought that

## What I learned:

Look at a business as the sum of three parts:

1. The market (who is interested in this?)
2. The channels (How can I reach the market?)
3. The product (What am I offering via the channel?)

You'll notice that I put the product last. This might seem backwards, but I think it's the right spot for it. It's a failure of the English language to say "I'm building a product." It skips over the two equally important parts, and gives a misleading image of what it means to create a SaaS business.

It would be more accurate to say, _"I'm building authority in \[channels\] to serve \[market\], and will be offering \[product\] for those it can help."_

## What I'm doing next:

Part of me really wants to write. I don't know if it's just temporary, a decompression, from the constant product work. But I'm torn on this subject.

On one hand, writing is something I enjoy. It's a guaranteed way to gain initial traction on a product. It's a great way to make friends in the industry, and help grow both your personal and business brands. It would be nice to play a game where the only risk is product risk ("can I produce quality content consistently?") instead of market risk ("will people be interested in buying this?").

On the other hand, I've never been able to write consistently. I want to write what I want to write about (like this post), regardless of who reads it. I don't want to build an audience, I want to prove that a bootstrapped founder can be successful based on the quality of the product alone.

### As far as CoderNotes, I want to let it grow organically.

It wouldn't be right to call it life-support. Yes, I don't plan on adding many new features, if any at all, but that's because CoderNotes is a great piece of software as is. Any other features are simply nice-to-haves.

I never found any successful short-term channels with CoderNotes. I had hoped that the communities I was a part of, becoming more active on twitter, and paid advertising would be enough to consistently drive converting traffic to CoderNotes.

![Conversion information for codernotes from the past three months](/uploads/conversion-by-source.jpg)

As you can see, the results I saw were almost the opposite in effect. While twitter brought in some curious people, the conversion rate was horrible.

IndieHackers was the second best, which speaks to the fact that it is such an amazing community. Even though I'm sure many of these people were only here out of curiosity, it still remained a well-converting group. A lot of IHers are developers by trade, which I think helped a lot. However, Indie Hackers isn't nearly enough traffic to keep the site alive on its own, due to the extremely low price point of $50/year or $5/month. The few subscriptions I'll end up getting through here probably won't cover infrastructure costs.

Oh, and google ads ("google / cpc" in the picture above) had an abysmal 0.00% conversion rate. Ouch.

### While there's no short-term channels for CoderNotes, there are two very strong positives in the picture above.

These two channels in the picture above are the reason I'm not calling this next phase of CoderNotes "life support". It's my all-in bet on why CoderNotes still has a chance at success, from a longer-term perspective. It's either this or bust, it seems:

Take a look at #7. What does it mean for my app to be referring users to my marketing page? Seems weird, right?

Well, not really. The only link from the app that goes back to the site is this one here:

![](/uploads/learn-more.jpg)

It's a small link that shows up at the top of the app if you don't have an account. The high conversion rate means that this link **works**. 

And how would someone find this link without having gone through the marketing page first? Google.

## What I'm doing long-term

![A photo showing search results increasing](/uploads/long-term-hope.jpg "Slowly but surely, search results increase")

For CoderNotes, the long-term strategy is to
